When we perform calculations
with a pen and paper,
we often need to save
intermediate results.
And we may do this with say, scrap paper.
And in this case, the paper is
acting as a form of external memory.
And memory, no matter the form,
takes up physical space.
Computers contain memory, we can think of
it as the scrap paper for the computer.
And say, when you construct an array
to store values in your program,
you require memory.
And at the lowest level,
computers read and
store all instructions
as a string of numbers.
But how do you store numbers in a machine?
This was a very difficult problem
originally, especially when you need
computers to hold their memory
after the access to power is lost.
This is known as nonvolatile memory.
The easiest difference for
a machine to detect is simply a presence
versus an absence of something.
And this is how old
punch cards would work.
Along the top we have some data and
the vertical columns contain
a series of punched holes which
represent each character.
So computers really have two fingers,
base two.
Same as a light switch being on for
one, and off for zero.
This is the smallest
amount of information,
a single difference, which we call a bit.
But bits are powerful for
storage because the amount of unique
states grows exponentially
as we add bits together.
Remember, one light switch is one bit and
it can store two states.
But two light switches can
store four unique states.
And eight light switches, or eight bits,
can store 256 unique states.
And space is measured in bits.
But the physical size of a bit
depends on your method of storage.
So how do computers store zeros and
ones internally?
>> Modern data processing systems like
these use thousands of magnetic cores.
What are magnetic cores?
They are tiny rings of nickel alloy or
other magnetic materials.
They have replaced vacuum tubes for
many important functions
in data processing systems.
>> And it allowed computers to store bits
as clockwise versus counterclockwise
magnetization direction, because
each core could be magnetized in two
different ways depending which
direction the current was applied.
>> Because a bit can be represented
by any bi-stable device and
a magnetic core is a bi-stable device.
>> Later on, this was done
using thin film magnetic discs.
Where we can think of each
bit as a tiny magnetic cell
which can be charged to store
either a one or a zero.
So long story short,
the size of a bit has been rapidly
shrinking since the days of punch cards.
A hard drive in a modern computer
can be thought of as billions
of tiny magnetic cells.
Now you may wonder, well how small
can these little magnetic cells be,
and current research at IBM is
pushing this to the atomic level.
Where they have shown.